[Music]
hello good morning and welcome to
breakfast with ben thompson and sally
nugent our headlines
this morning talks through the night to
try to break the brexit trade deal
deadlock the uk calls the eu's current
offer
unacceptable health leaders urge extreme
caution in easing coronavirus
restrictions
warning it could lead to a third wave of
infections
good morning he's still the champion
anthony joshua knocks out cupra
pulev to defend his world titles and set
up a potential super fight
with tyson fury good morning to you it's
looking more unsettled now for the
foreseeable future we've got low
pressure
sweeping in today it's going to bring
stronger winds and outbreaks of rain
it's also going to do some milder air as
well join me later
for all the details
[Music]
good morning it is sunday december the
13th our top story this morning
last-ditch talks are continuing in
brussels this morning as the
uk and eu officials attempt to break the
deadlock over a post-brexit trade deal
boris johnson and the president of the
european commission will decide later
whether to abandon or continue
negotiations beyond today's deadline
but after months of failed discussion
both sides have warned that a no deal
outcome
is likely with the latest our political
correspondence
in watson a brief glimpse of the uk's
chief negotiator in brussels he's been
locked in discussions behind closed
doors with the eu
and the negotiating teams continued to
talk overnight
but without much progress a government
source told the bbc
as things stand the offer on the table
from the eu
remains unacceptable the eu commission
president ursula van der laan
and boris johnson will talk today and
decide whether it's worthwhile
continuing with negotiations
theresa may's de facto deputy when she
was dealing with brexit at number 10
is urging both sides to keep talking it
is
hugely in britain's interests and in the
european union's interest
for there to be a deal at the end of
this so
although it's long and painful and
difficult it is worth
keeping talking but some in boris
johnson's party are calling on him to
stand firm
no deal will will be some short-term
disruption until markets readjust
but the long-term effect of signing up
to a bad deal will be for
decades possibly even perpetuity and
that will be
hamstringing our democracy and our
economy
going forward and we can't do that
previous brexit deadlines have come and
gone but after today's talks in brussels
it's possible
that there will be an answer to the
question deal
or no deal ian watson bbc news
relaxing coronavirus restrictions next
week could trigger a third wave of
infections during the busiest time of
year for hospitals
according to nhs bosses nhs providers
which represents hospital trusts in
england has written to the prime
minister urging
extreme caution when moving areas to a
lower tier
as lisa hempley reports winter is when
hospitals are at their busiest
but the pandemic means this year will be
unlike any other
hospital leaders in england are worried
the high infection rate in the north
during the autumn
may soon be taking hold in the south in
the letter nhs providers say
there were thirteen thousand covered
patients in hospital
in england this week compared to 500 in
early september
the chief executive has urged caution
ahead of the review of tears on
wednesday
you just need to be really careful about
relaxing the restrictions on social
contact
because we know that that inevitably at
the moment what that means is
more more covered cases more pressure on
the nhs
and to be frank more people dying
unnecessarily
all four nations have been under tough
measures in recent weeks
but the r number which shows whether the
epidemic is growing or shrinking
is thought to be above one in some areas
the letter to the prime minister says
there's been a worrying increase in
infection rates across a wide range of
areas
including essex kent london and parts of
lincolnshire
and areas should be moved into tier
three the highest level of restrictions
as soon as this is needed without any
delay
concern is mounting that household
mixing and travel over christmas
could lead to a third wave the hospital
leaders stopped short
of asking for a review of the policy but
urged the prime minister to lead a
better public debate
about the risks the government says it
won't hesitate to take necessary action
to protect local communities
and its review will be based on the
latest data that will include factors
such as
infection rates amongst the over 60s and
pressure on the nhs
lisa hamilly bbc news elderly care home
residents and staff in scotland will
receive the coronavirus vaccine from
tomorrow
logistical challenges with the fisa
beyond tech jab make it difficult to
deliver in the community
but changes to how it can be transported
and stored mean a care home rollout
is possible in scotland it's still
unclear though
when homes in england and wales will
receive the vaccine
across the atlantic the first
coronavirus vaccinations in the united
states will begin
tomorrow after the pfizer job was
authorized for emergency use
it comes as the country recorded the
world's highest death toll
for a single day yesterday with 3309
covid related deaths well we can speak
now to our north america correspondent
david willis uh
david's uh morning to you just how much
of a challenge
a logistical challenge is this we've
talked about what's happening here in
the uk but in the us of course
much much bigger oh it's a huge
challenge ben and the army general or
the man who's in charge
of the logistical effort of rolling out
this vaccine
to some 330 million people
drew on a wartime analogy today
he said that the authorization of the
vaccine on friday
was like d-day in the sense that it was
the beginning
of the end but not the end itself and
general
gustav perne said that there was a lot
of tough work ahead
but this was indeed a good start and
there are a lot of challenges not least
because
of course the vaccine has to be kept at
minus 70
fahrenheit temperatures there are
certain shipping requirements
and so on but the first shipments will
go
out tomorrow that's sunday here the
first
jabs will actually be administered on
monday
and thereafter it will be health workers
uh
frontline responders who will be given
preference
along with uh members of elderly and
retirement
communities and it could be the spring
or the summer of next year
before the vaccine is more widely
available
here okay david for now thank you david
willis there
in the u.s for us on that rollout all of
the vaccine in america
anthony joshua has retained his three
heavyweight boxing titles after beating
the bulgarian kubrat pulev
last night one thousand fans were
allowed to watch at wembley
wembley arena as joshua knocked his
opponent off his feet
several times over nine rounds before
the referee called
time his victory paved the way for a
potential fight against britain's other
heavyweight champion
tyson fury and virgin galactic's
rocket-powered
tourist plane has been forced to abort a
milestone test flight after a technical
malfunction
spaceship two as its known rule which
will carry paying customers into space
was on its first crude test flight but
it had to turn back after an hour
it did land safely in new mexico with
the two pilots
on board a little bit scary
amazing yes incredible when it does work
yeah
it is eight minutes past six let's take
a look at the front pages of some of
today's
newspapers nearly all of them you won't
be surprised to hear
lead on the brexit trade talks which are
expected to end
today with or without a deal mail on
sunday
headlines with the claim that angela
merkel wants britain
to crawl across broken glass that is
according to an
unnamed government source
well the sunday time says supermarkets
are stockpiling food after being told
that a no deal brexit is a possibility
the paper says emergency planners
predict it could lead to panic buying on
the scale that could dwarf the scenes
that we saw
at the start of the pandemic the
observer reports on boris johnson facing
anger from
senior conservatives and business
leaders over his handling of the final
stage of these negotiations it says the
talks have caused
astonishment in his own party
and the sunday telegraph says a
multi-billion pound bailout package is
being drawn up to support industries
that could be hardest hit by a no deal
brexit
well the reports that the proposals will
include helpful
sheep farmers for fishermen for car
makers and
for chemical suppliers um i just want to
show you
uh one of the back pages this morning
manchester derby was played
last night um should i show you what the
uh mail on sunday think about
it see that yeah
they should say what they really mean
not the best match ever
anil nill they call it a stinker and
they say peppa's been warned you will
never win the title playing like that
you know what football it's a funny old
time for football isn't it
you know no crowds for most of the time
tiny
tiny amount of supporters now it's
strange we're getting some strange
football results speaking of a lack of
crowds uh theater's still closed
uh in most parts of the country uh and
so you might not be able to go and see
a panto which of course makes a ton of
money for theaters at this time of year
that often sees them through the quiet
winter months of january february and
march well
one way of dealing with that is this
firm
and group of actors who have set up a
plan to be delivered to your street in a
cab
and they will perform the panto in your
street so all your neighbors can get out
reminiscent of those scenes of clapping
for the nhs on a
thursday night on your doorstep and you
watch the panto
come rain or shine i imagine most places
it might be a little cold and a little
wet but nonetheless they're trying to
bring a bit of sunshine
to streets across the country if you
can't get down the
theater uh it's a great idea um
i love a bit of a mystery let's have a
look at this
beautiful beautiful cat turns up
in southampton is adopted by
a family who think you know this
beautiful cat's kind of come into their
home
there you can see this is ivan the cat
who came in from the cold because when
they took him to the vets
they checked his microchip he's russian
how did he get him well that is the
mystery they actually
don't know they saying that they checked
the microchip
um he's traveled from russia but the
device that he has implanted does not
give
the exact address so
how he got here i have no idea does that
chip not give you like a root it'd be
good if it gave you kind of like a
google maps route
i think you're asking an awful lot of
americans
it'd be great coming on the ship somehow
stowaway and a lovely picture in the
mail this morning this
is a leaked christmas card we are led to
believe
from the cambridges it's their family
christmas card
and it was posted on facebook by a
recipient so someone who received this
card from them
uh it's thought that the picture was
taken at amahual
their norfolk home uh with all of them
now traditionally we're told that they
would normally use a picture that's been
seen before but this one is
has not so this was a christmas card
said to nhs
staff and on it says where we to all the
amazing nhs staff we can never thank you
enough for the dedication
and sacrifices you have had to make this
year
will be forever grateful and both
william and kate have signed the card
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc
dot co dot uk forward slash news follow
the story for all the latest with bbc
news